docs: Add extensions reference documentation (#1661)
PowerShell/DSC: docs/reference/extensions/Microsoft/Windows/Appx/Discover/index.md

---
description: Microsoft.Windows.Appx/Discover extension reference documentation
ms.date:     08/08/2026
ms.topic:    reference
title:       Microsoft.Windows.Appx/Discover
---

# Microsoft.Windows.Appx/Discover

## Synopsis

Discovers DSC resources packaged as Appx packages.

## Metadata

```yaml
Version      : 0.1.0
Kind         : extension
Capabilities : [discover]
Author       : Microsoft
```

## Description

> 
> By default, DSC discovers command resources by searching the folders in the `PATH` or
> [`DSC_RESOURCE_PATH`][01] environment variable for manifest files. The
> `Microsoft.Windows.Appx/Discover` extension expands that discovery to Appx packages on Windows:
> it enumerates the Appx packages installed for the current user and searches the installation
> folder of each package for DSC manifest files, returning their paths to DSC.
> 
> With this extension, publishers can include a DSC resource in an application that's distributed
> through the Microsoft Store or installed as an MSIX/Appx package. After a user installs the
> application, DSC discovers the packaged resources automatically - the application's installation
> folder doesn't need to be added to `PATH` or `DSC_RESOURCE_PATH`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, DSC discovers command resources by searching the folders in the `PATH` or
[`DSC_RESOURCE_PATH`][01] environment variable for manifest files. The
`Microsoft.Windows.Appx/Discover` extension expands that discovery to Appx packages on Windows.

This extension enumerates the Appx packages installed for the current user and searches the
installation folder of each package for DSC manifest files, returning their paths to DSC.

With this extension, publishers can include a DSC resource in an application that's distributed
through the Microsoft Store or installed as an MSIX/Appx package. After a user installs the
application, DSC discovers the packaged resources automatically - the application's installation
folder doesn't need to be added to `PATH` or `DSC_RESOURCE_PATH`.
```

The extension searches the root of each package's installation folder for files with the
following extensions:

- `.dsc.resource.json`, `.dsc.resource.yaml`, `.dsc.resource.yml`
- `.dsc.adaptedresource.json`, `.dsc.adaptedresource.yaml`, `.dsc.adaptedresource.yml`
- `.dsc.manifests.json`, `.dsc.manifests.yaml`, `.dsc.manifests.yml`
- `.dsc.extension.json`, `.dsc.extension.yaml`, `.dsc.extension.yml`

> [!NOTE]
> The extension searches only the root of each package's installation folder, not its

> > subfolders. Manifests must be placed at the top level of the package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The extension only searches the root of each package's installation folder, _not_ its subfolders.
> For the extension to discover any manifests, publishers must place them at the top level of the
> package.
```
